THE BODY OPULENT 
Mr. Silver owned a steel plant and manipulated auras on the outskirts of Detroit: a faith healer.
Perhaps he could heal mine. Through subdivisions trim and brown as bouillon cubes, defoliated zones, where heavy machinery depreciated, I took my heart. 
The waiting room contained a cloudy sky made finite in linoleum,
 a kind of American marble. Whatever lured me here? 
A month ago I'd plunged into a double-dark nothing like sleep since sleep gives dividends of dream, free wake-ups. Coming to, my body less tractable than a grocery bag of sand, I knew I'd nearly made the one-stop shopping trip I'd heard so much about. Doctors pursued the elusive verdict, their spooky machines awhirr with purpose. Their glowing dyes showed fiery tributaries ribboning my heart: arabesques of argon violet crosshatched in patterns so complex they seemed quite random. It would take some faith to unravel all that bafflement, Was it heretical to expect things from this world? To want to live forever in the cells' jewel glut, the body opulent, a squirming heaven in each fist? 
Mr. Silver spoke first of psychics with the power to bend metal, supernormally light lamps two miles away, draw like famous artists, and speed the growth of seeds. Though he could do none of these, I sensed a Yankee optimism when he mentioned his ability to diagnose and treat disease. "Never mind preachers finding devils under everybody's skin. Some things are beyond our knowing. It's important to believe." When I agreed he seemed relieved. "All right, sports fans, let's see if these success stories go beyond conjecture," he said. I was to dose my eyes and meditate on something pleasant while he mediated over me. 
Though I tried to snag my mind on sweetness, I kept thinking this is America. And I hadn't told anyone where I was going. He put his hands around my neck and squeezed. Each cell got busy, singing the dawnsong of its name; my body suddenly felt worth its weight in light, as if I held the sky above an earthquake-the magenta glow made by electric fields and shifting plates-inside each artery and vein. After thirty minutes he backed off to give the news. "It's true, you have a cardiac screw loose. But I'll tell you what to do. Smile. Meditate like you did tonight. Remember you don't have to kiss anybody's fanny. You're going to be all right." By way of farewell, blessing, or epiphany, he feelingly recited Kipling's "If.", Then his flashlight led me through a maze of cold rolled metal, polychromed partitions. 
Outside, the night was laced with bright fillips of pidgin English: Glassbenders, in bins among transformers, standing burners, the din and smell of lightning, formed these Lifesavers and double helices of neon, an old-fashioned, hard to stack, quickly cracking stuff. They vacuumed each tube of impurities, primed the inside with hot-colored phosphor, painted the spaces between letters black. They burned themselves welding adrenaline messages into night: "La Chambre: Exotic Dancers," "Warsaw Foot-Long." "Elijah's 
Hellenic Den" looked the most respectable. When I opened the door, a waiter raised a platter of flames. "Opal" the patrons roared as if their lungs were made of silk wrapped round a shout. Still hoping for signs and wonders, I thought it might mean Health or Life, an omen of survival. "It's just something we say. It means like ofe. It don't mean nothing," the waiter told me. The appetizers were dark and shiny; the wine local, from grapes grown in the Motor City, going by its nose of Pennzoil and Prestone. A dubious sustenance. Yet I swallowed it like gospel that somehow did me good. I was lucky, then, 
under the enormous torque of midwest sky, to find my Nova in the lot, to drive past emblems galvanizing night-the golden arches, spirals, labyrinths, and flags; the logos placed like halos above service stations; the freeway's glowing dot and dash-a path of crumbs to follow home. 


